---
title: There are just way too many choices
summary: Forget outside the box, the box itself has too many things to think about
date: 2025-09-18 00:42:00 +0530
---

---
## The price of free will
Don't get me wrong with the title, I love having choices. Especially, when it comes to the choice of getting to choose better or cheaper alternatives. But what I want to talk about today is how having too many choices sometimes can cripple your ability to make decisions quicker or just making a decision at all. I'm sure there's dozens of things out there where this applies to but for this bit I'm talking about open source software. Before I say anything, let me make it clear, I _love_ open source.

There is something special about a community project that actually comes to life and solves a problem you have or gives you an equal if not better alternative to a paid software. Couple of my favorite OSSs are VSCode (technically under Microsoft), Inkscape, Blender, Godot, etc. With this I can get a game off Steam every once in a while rather than paying subscriptions for software I barely use. It truly is quite the investment once you take the time to learn how to use it and watch the money it saves you. With that being said, this blog isn't about the glories of OSS but rather how having n number of alternatives can be rather unproductive.

For example, this entire website is hosted on [GitHub](https://roxtonma.github.io/blog/) using github actions and a bit of Ruby but there are other ways and places this site could be hosted on like Vercel, Heroku, pythonanywhere, etc., the list goes on. This site could be anywhere among these services, written in just plain HTML, CSS, JS, or by using python frameworks like Django or Flask, you get the point. When you are presented with an all-you-can-have buffet of technologies like this, it's easy to lose focus on what actually matters, in my case, just having a blog for my musings.

I can understand that in cases of companies and organizations, it's more about scalability and maintainability so you would probably think about things like whether a particular technology receives regular updates or maintainenance or maybe whether it might not be compatible with the existing tech stack in case things go south when you're trying to scale to millions of users. But for personal use, I don't think it really matters which brand of carbonated soda you go for because all you care about is the fizz and the taste.

I think man as a species is a very interesting one, when presented with abundance of choice our immediate thought isn't to indulge in it but to think what would be the optimal way to utlize a thing and maximize it's potential. I'm not saying that this applies to everybody so I'll probably say this only once for all of my future blogs. If I were to try to consider every side of the story and speak for every side, I'll never be able to freely speak on a topic to it's fullest even though sometimes I might miss a few things, in which case, I might revisit them or mention them in the future. One of my motives is to spark conversation, and if I were to try to speak for every possible side, I would stand for nothing and fall for everything.

That being said, I'm starting to believe that getting to choose between a limited amount of options will actually lead you to action than having an unlimited amount of possibilities. It's as if being told to think outside the box when you don't know what's even in the box. Suddenly having the power of the sun in the palm of your hands won't give you the answer on what to do with that power.

Well, it's not like I have figured what choices to make and which will be better but maybe that's not the point at all. Some choices are made as a leap of faith, some choices are made as a sacrifice and some out of desperation. Having free will doesn't mean having the ability to make the right decision but the ability to make a decision and make it right. Ultimately, the price of free will be settled when you can no longer take on further debts.