---
title: Kenshi - Living in an unfair world and learning to live with it
summary: Are you a newbie or a veteran? Regardless, this game will/has beat the shit out of you.
date: 2025-08-20 20:40:00 +0530
---

---
#### All roads start the same

On one cloudy day, you boot up your computer, ready to try out that one game you either saw on YouTube or the Steam homepage. You think to yourself, "I'll be the one to conquer the world of Kenshi better than they did." And so, you pick the "Wanderer" start.

You create your avatar, the herald of destruction, that sets foot on the lands of Kenshi for the first time. You have no idea where you are. The only thing that you _do_ know is that you are dirt poor and the world is covered in sand as far as you can see. So, you go to the first building you can find, a building with a big sign that says "BAR." You talk to the barman, but you can only afford a meal or two if you're lucky. So, you make that purchase, which sends you into the red, and start looking around the town for ways to make money. After a quick glance, you find your moneymaker, a vein of copper/iron ore. You know those can be smelted into something useful, but for now you chip away for a quick penny. As you are reeking of sweat, you notice a large group of people heading your way. "Not a bad idea to introduce yourself to the locals," you think. But as you turn towards them, they immediately demand that you surrender your half-eaten bowl of rice. You don't really want to, since you bought it with your last bit of money.

And so, a fight of epic proportion ensues. You clash your rusty blade against their measly sticks. You exchange blows, but on every clash you feel as though the transaction isn't quite balanced. For every strike you commit, you are punished four or five times harder. You try to parry the oncoming strike from the front, but as you do, you are hit with a gut-splitting blow to your side. As you lose your footing, the other members of the group close in and start raining down their barrage of desperation-filled attacks. Individually, their attacks don't seem like something you can't shrug off, but in a horde you hope that one of the town guards comes to your aid. Alas, you fall to the ground. You feel it would be better to lay there, at least you'll be comfortable while the thrashing continues. But it never does. You wake up to find your half-eaten bowl of rice gone. Oh well, who wanted that anyway? You make your way back to the town, bruised and with a limp, only to talk to the barman to sell the ore pieces you mined earlier. With that, you rent a cheap bed, and boy, does it feel good to lie down on something other than sand.

With a renewed vigor, you head back to your moneymaker hoping to save enough money to get some better gear. But then you notice the barman doesn't really sell weapons or armor to help you exact your revenge. After a while of grinding away at the ore and earning a handful of cats, you decide it's time to head to a bigger city and try your luck there. And so you start running, running along the vast expanse of desert and stone—a barren wasteland where nothing can thrive is what you think of this place. But then your ears are greeted by Kenshi's soundtrack. Suddenly, you get a strange feeling, as if the world is now aware of your presence but not yet ready to acknowledge you. Maybe you were just meant to live a peaceful yet uneventful life at the previous town—slowly increasing your wealth by selling minerals and living a relatively comfortable life in one of the buildings. But maybe that is not the life for you. No, you choose to see what's out there for yourself, and see you shall. You keep on running by yourself as the music fades away. If you're lucky, you'll reach the first inhabited city with not so much as a scratch. From here on is where your story will begin. What will you choose to be? A traveling merchant, a sword for the self-righteous, a bloodthirsty warlord?

If there's one thing you'll learn, or perhaps have learned, from Kenshi, it's that just because you are down in the dumps or even hit a new low, it's not the end. Getting your ass handed to you every fight, getting robbed of your hard-earned valuables, even almost becoming an afternoon snack. The world of Kenshi wants to see you become _something_, and for that reason, I personally think and feel it is one of the most immersive games out there, and this blog does not even scratch the surface of what you can do. To me, this game does a pretty good caricature of life. Unexpected things happen all the time, sometimes you might be prepared for it and sometimes it makes you prepare for the next one. If anything, Kenshi is about surviving in a world that couldn't care less about you but if you play your cards right, you can even thrive in it and notice that your efforts do pay off in the end.